 Home Prev Up Next	DocBook 5: The Definitive Guide (Version 1.0.4 for DocBook V5.0)
classsynopsis

classsynopsis — The syntax summary for a class definition.
Synopsis

    Sequence of:
        One or more of:
            Object-oriented programming inlines [+]
        Zero or more of:
            classsynopsisinfo
            constructorsynopsis
            destructorsynopsis
            fieldsynopsis
            methodsynopsis

Attributes

Common attributes and common linking attributes.

Additional attributes:

    class (enumeration)
        “class”
        “interface”
    language

Description

A classsynopsis contains the syntax summary of a class (generally speaking, a class in the object-oriented programming language sense).

This is one of the few places where DocBook attempts to model as well as describe. Unlike funcsynopsis, which was designed with C language function prototypes in mind, the content model of classsynopsis was designed to capture a wide range of object-oriented language semantics.
Processing expectations

For the most part, the processing application is expected to generate all of the parentheses, semicolons, commas, and so on required in the rendered synopsis. The exception to this rule is that the spacing and other punctuation inside a parameter that is a pointer to a function must be provided in the source markup.
Attributes

Common attributes and common linking attributes.

class

    Specifies the nature of the synopsis
    Enumerated values:
    “class”	

    This is the synopsis of a class
    “interface”	

    This is the synopsis of an interface
language

    Identifies the language (i.e. programming language) of the content.

Parents [+]
This element occurs in 73 elements.
Children

The following elements occur in classsynopsis: classsynopsisinfo, constructorsynopsis, destructorsynopsis, fieldsynopsis, methodsynopsis, ooclass, ooexception, oointerface.
Prev 	Home	 Next
classname 	Up	 classsynopsisinfo
Last revised by Norman Walsh on 6 Jun 2011 (git hash: 6ffcc7640bbc5f852a318e452c9f210f03292cb9)

Copyright © 2010, 2011 Norman Walsh.
