 Home Prev Up Next	DocBook 5: The Definitive Guide (Version 1.0.4 for DocBook V5.0)
refmiscinfo

refmiscinfo — Meta-information for a reference entry other than the title and volume number.
Synopsis

    Zero or more of:
        text
        phrase (db._phrase)
        replaceable
        Graphic inlines [+]
        Indexing inlines [+]
        Linking inlines [+]
        Ubiquitous inlines [+]

Attributes

Common attributes and common linking attributes.

Additional attributes:

    At most one of:
        class (enumeration)
            “source”
            “version”
            “manual”
            “sectdesc”
            “software”
        All or none of:
            class (enumeration)
                “other”
            otherclass

Description

The refmiscinfo element is an escape hatch for additional meta-information about a reference page. It may hold copyright information, release or revision information, descriptive text for use in a print header or footer, or any other information not explicitly provided for in refmeta.
Processing expectations

May be formatted inline or as a displayed block, depending on context.
Attributes

Common attributes and common linking attributes.

class

    Identifies the kind of miscellaneous information
    Enumerated values:
    “source”	

    The name of the software product or component to which this topic applies
    “version”	

    The version of the software product or component to which this topic applies
    “manual”	

    The section title of the reference page (e.g., User Commands)
    “sectdesc”	

    The section title of the reference page (believed synonymous with "manual" but in wide use)
    “software”	

    The name of the software product or component to which this topic applies (e.g., SunOS x.y; believed synonymous with "source" but in wide use)
class

    Identifies the kind of miscellaneious information
    Enumerated values:
    “other”	

    Indicates that the information is some 'other' kind.
otherclass

    Identifies the nature of non-standard miscellaneous information

Parents

These elements contain refmiscinfo: refmeta.
Children [+]
This element contains 16 elements.
Prev 	Home	 Next
refmeta 	Up	 refname
Last revised by Norman Walsh on 6 Jun 2011 (git hash: 6ffcc7640bbc5f852a318e452c9f210f03292cb9)

Copyright © 2010, 2011 Norman Walsh.
